---
layout: main
title: The Last Of Us
---

It's been a while since I've updated my site & really I should keep it up to date for anyone who checks it. As my development work has been quiet to researching new projects like wordpress theming, I thought a nice new feature to the side would be 'Buy it, Rent it & Avoid it' game reviews. All of which are spolier free. After all this is a blog about me & what I do!

As I only just finished this game in the past two weeks I thought it'd be good to do a small post about it, the game being The Last Of Us by [Naughty Dog](http://www.naughtydog.com/). I have to admit from start to finish this game never failed to keep me on the edge of my seat, if it was the enviroments, characters, combat, stealth or crafting. Don't get me wrong, there is a lot more to the game than just those five areas I've mentioned. Throughout the game you are taken through areas designed for you to take in the story that will then blend very easily into combat or a stealth section and back out. For those of you that think you can sneak your way through most of the game, think again. It's possible to be quiet, but the game will force you into intense combat situations in close quaters where you just have to get up close and personal. Using weapons like glass bottles & bricks as your light melee weapons & planks of wood & steel pipes than can later be upgraded with shivs that are scavenged the game can be very brutal. It's nice to see for once the will use enviroments dynamically for kills, attack someone near a wall? chances are Joel is going to use than in one way or another, or maybe you approach someone with your bottle equipped? yep! you guessed it, Joels going to use that to stun whoever he's up against. When it comes to stealth Joel can be lethal, with the ability for Joel to highten his sense of hearing and determind the location of enemies with a certain radius you can plan your attack. For people that don't want to use this as they see it as a 'cheat', you don't have to it is optional. Again Joel has multiple options for stealth kills grab them from behind and sufficate them or grab them from behind & use a shiv to take them out quietly. It's up to you, but remember the more noise you make in this game, the chances are you'll attract more attention from other enemies within the game. That's enough on that topic anyway.

Surivial, the main aspect of this game. As you've probably heard in the trailers Ellie says "Will you be the last of us?". You'll understand this quote as you play the game, I won't spoil that for you. When it comes to suriving the outbreak its harder than you think, with ammo at an all time low & resources being hard to find chances are you'll die a few times. This does make the game what it is though. You need to search the enviroments for resources such as alcohol, rags, scrap metal & a range of other tools to help you craft items to survive. Again I won't talk to much as some of them are a surprise and come later in the game. 

Graphically this game is stunning, to some PC users it might look a bit dated in sections but for a game coming out at the end of a console generation its really showing what the PlayStation 3 is capable of doing, this isn't something many developers can do. From the enviroments to the facial animations as you control the characters they haven't missed a thing. The game is beautiful from start to finish.

We're almost at the end! don't worry my next one probably won't be as long. Ellie is a vital part of this game although I've not mentioned her yet, she's by Joels side the entire game and comes in very useful. She helps spot items for you, distracts enemies and if you ever get really stuck will get up close and personal with them too. This is another area I'm not going to discuss too much as it might go into spoiler territory. 

The story holds a lot of surprises and will take you a good 12 - 15 hours if you aren't doing a speed run which you can't afford to do anyway due to the supplies aspect of the game. You'll never be bored & will often find even in the quiet sections of the game as you move between locations the chatter between Joel & Ellie is better than the voice acting and entertainment I've in some games.

Final verdict: Buy it


![thelastofus]

[thelastofus]: ../img/posts/thelastofus.png
